README.md, before:

# Installation

You can download the latest version from releases section and download the `release.zip`.

Simply unzip the content in a folder, and launch `SM64DSe.exe`.

# Usage

The SM64DSe editor has 2 usage the traditional through its GUI (Graphical User Interface) or through CLI (Command Line Interface).

## 🖼️ Graphical User Interface

You can simply double click on the `SM64DSe.exe` file you downloaded, and it will open the interface.

> The editor support drag and drop a .nds file.

## #️⃣ Command Line Interface

The CLI is mainly work in progress as it only support a few elements.

> The CLI is aimed to provide tools for developers to 

### **🩹 patch**

The `patch` command is used to execute a `.sp2` file containing instructions.
````
SM64DSe.exe patch [ROM-FILE] [SP2-FILE]

# flags

When dealing with vanilla ROM, the default behavior of the CLI is to exit the program, as it will not edit vanilla rom by default. 
You can force the editor to install the required patch for vanilla rom to be edited using the following flag.

+ `--force` force the editor to use the required patch on the rom
````

> Lean more about the `.sp2` format in [Documentation/SP2](Documentation/SP2.md).

### **🔨 compile**

The `compile` command aims to provide an easy way to build and insert dynamic library and overlays from source code.

> Currently only the dynamic libraries are supported.

````
SM64DSe.exe compile (DL|OVERLAY) [ROM-FILE] [SOURCE-CODE] [INTERNAL-PATH]

# flags

+ `--force` force the editor to use the required patch on the rom
+ `--create` if the internal path does not exist, the file will be created, by default it replaces an existing one.
+ `--recursive` if the internal path provided does not exist, create the parent directory.
+ `--env` environment variable to provide to the make command. E.g. `--env SOURCES=code/peach --env INCLUDE=includes` 

# Example

SM64DSe.exe compile DL ./europe.nds ./src data/dynamic/peach_npc.dylb --force --create --recursive
````

### **📥 insertDLs**

The `insertDLs` command will use already built binaries to generate one or many dynamics libraries and insert them inside the rom filesystem.

````
SM64DSe.exe insertDLs [ROM-FILE] [BUILD-FOLDER] [TARGETS-FILE]

# flags
+ `--newcode-lo` (Default `newcode_lo.bin`)
+ `--newcode-hi` (Default `newcode_hi.bin`)

+ `--force` force the editor to use the required patch on the rom
+ `--create` if the internal path does not exist, the file will be created, by default it replaces an existing one.
+ `--recursive` if the internal path provided does not exist, create the parent directory.

# Example

SM64DSe.exe insertDLs ./europe.nds ./build ./targets.json --newcode-lo=newcode.bin --newcode-hi=newcode1.bin

````

⚠️ The editor **will not** build the binaries for you, you need to execute `make` or any building process ahead. This will only combine for each target the existing `newcode_lo` and `newcode_hi` in a dynamic library.

> The `TARGETS-FILE` values must point to a text file either **plain text** or **json**.
> 
> For plain text, the format is per line `[directory]: [internal-path]`. E.g. 
> ```
> infinite_floor: data/enemy/peach/peach_jump.bca
> test_cutscene:  data/enemy/peach/peach_jump_end.bca
> ```
> 
> For json format, we simply require a dictionnary string: string. E.g.
> 
> ```{"infinite_floor": "data/enemy/peach/peach_jump.bca", "test_cutscene": "data/enemy/peach/peach_jump_end.bca"}```

You can find an example in the repository [pants64DS/Misc-SM64DS-Patches/dynamic_lib](https://github.com/pants64DS/Misc-SM64DS-Patches/tree/master/dynamic_lib)

Commit message:

Fix insertDL options --newcode-lo and --newcode-hi

README.md, after:

# Installation

You can download the latest version from releases section and download the `release.zip`.

Simply unzip the content in a folder, and launch `SM64DSe.exe`.

# Usage

The SM64DSe editor has 2 usage the traditional through its GUI (Graphical User Interface) or through CLI (Command Line Interface).

## 🖼️ Graphical User Interface

You can simply double click on the `SM64DSe.exe` file you downloaded, and it will open the interface.

> The editor support drag and drop a .nds file.

## #️⃣ Command Line Interface

The CLI is mainly work in progress as it only support a few elements.

> The CLI is aimed to provide tools for developers to 

### **🩹 patch**

The `patch` command is used to execute a `.sp2` file containing instructions.
````
SM64DSe.exe patch [ROM-FILE] [SP2-FILE]

# flags

When dealing with vanilla ROM, the default behavior of the CLI is to exit the program, as it will not edit vanilla rom by default. 
You can force the editor to install the required patch for vanilla rom to be edited using the following flag.

+ `--force` force the editor to use the required patch on the rom
````

> Lean more about the `.sp2` format in [Documentation/SP2](Documentation/SP2.md).

### **🔨 compile**

The `compile` command aims to provide an easy way to build and insert dynamic library and overlays from source code.

> Currently only the dynamic libraries are supported.

````
SM64DSe.exe compile (DL|OVERLAY) [ROM-FILE] [SOURCE-CODE] [INTERNAL-PATH]

# flags

+ `--force` force the editor to use the required patch on the rom
+ `--create` if the internal path does not exist, the file will be created, by default it replaces an existing one.
+ `--recursive` if the internal path provided does not exist, create the parent directory.
+ `--env` environment variable to provide to the make command. E.g. `--env SOURCES=code/peach --env INCLUDE=includes` 

# Example

SM64DSe.exe compile DL ./europe.nds ./src data/dynamic/peach_npc.dylb --force --create --recursive
````

### **📥 insertDLs**

The `insertDLs` command will use already built binaries to generate one or many dynamics libraries and insert them inside the rom filesystem.

````
SM64DSe.exe insertDLs [ROM-FILE] [BUILD-FOLDER] [TARGETS-FILE]

# flags
+ `--newcode-lo` (Default `newcode_lo`)
+ `--newcode-hi` (Default `newcode_hi`)

+ `--force` force the editor to use the required patch on the rom
+ `--create` if the internal path does not exist, the file will be created, by default it replaces an existing one.
+ `--recursive` if the internal path provided does not exist, create the parent directory.

The options `--newcode-lo` and `--newcode-hi` can be used to specify the names of the input files **without extensions**. The command assumes that each targeted folder contains two `.bin` files with the given filenames (`newcode_lo.bin` and `newcode_hi.bin` by default), and a `.sym` file with the name specified with `--newcode-lo` (or `newcode_lo.sym` by default).

# Example

SM64DSe.exe insertDLs ./europe.nds ./build ./targets.json --newcode-lo=newcode --newcode-hi=newcode1

````

⚠️ The editor **will not** build the binaries for you, you need to execute `make` or any building process ahead. This will only combine for each target the existing `newcode_lo` and `newcode_hi` in a dynamic library.

> The `TARGETS-FILE` values must point to a text file either **plain text** or **json**.
> 
> For plain text, the format is per line `[directory]: [internal-path]`. E.g. 
> ```
> infinite_floor: data/enemy/peach/peach_jump.bca
> test_cutscene:  data/enemy/peach/peach_jump_end.bca
> ```
> 
> For json format, we simply require a dictionnary string: string. E.g.
> 
> ```{"infinite_floor": "data/enemy/peach/peach_jump.bca", "test_cutscene": "data/enemy/peach/peach_jump_end.bca"}```

You can find an example in the repository [pants64DS/Misc-SM64DS-Patches/dynamic_lib](https://github.com/pants64DS/Misc-SM64DS-Patches/tree/master/dynamic_lib)
